# April 29–30, 2020

I've begun to dig deep into the planning phase of my project. With the help of Flatiron's [Planning, Tips, and Support document](https://github.com/learn-co-students/js-spa-project-instructions-online-web-sp-000/blob/master/project-planning-tips.md), I outlined my general plan and drafted user stories, models, and associations. Then I tightened up and confirmed my draft during office hours.

## Planning

I took my initial ideas to an office hours session and was able to get excellent feedback. In my user stories, I've included cases of conditional access — otherwise known as authorization. This goes beyond the MVP \(minimum viable product\) for this project, so I'm going to focus on building out my models and controllers restriction-free.

Although I am building the MVP now, I know that later I'll want to add roles to my `User` model, so I am creating that enum attribute from the get-go that will default to the `student` value to save myself the hassle of that refactor later on. Originally, I was planning on a four model app — `User`, `Request`, `Upvote`, and `Comment` — but I realized I could add comment as an optional attribute on the `Upvote` model to simplify the associations.

As for model associations, I will be looking into using aliases. I want to alias the `User` model according to their enum role attribute value. When a `Student` creates a new `Request`, this will create a many-to-one relationship. However, when a `Student` upvotes a `Request`, this association will use `Upvote` as a join table to create a many-to-many relationship. I will also alias the models for these associations as `Upvoted Requests` and `Supporting Students` so it's easier to tell the difference between the two types of relationships.

## Future Features

I've already started going a bit off the rails with the scope of this project so I did what I always do: create a future features document!

In there I added a bit about `enums` \(their methods and scopes\) as well as the `str_enum` gem. I also added some notes about GitHub OAuth which I hope to implement one day. Another student was kind enough to alert me to a recent change in their OAuth implementation that can make it a little buggy. _Thanks William Barela!_

