# May 5, 2020

I began researching more into the types of Active Record Associations I want to use for my models and I rewrote a good portion of my planning notes in the form of code blocks instead of plain text.

## Active Record Associations Research

### Polymorphic Associations

[Ruby on Rails Guide](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/association_basics.html#polymorphic-associations) states "with polymorphic associations, a model can belong to more than one other model, on a single association." I read an article written by [LaunchSchool](https://launchschool.com/blog/understanding-polymorphic-associations-in-rails) for further explanation of polymorphic associations and decided that my app would not be the best use case for this.

### Options in Active Record Associations

Since I eliminated polymorphic associations from my list of viable candidates for this project, I moved on to other options in Active Record Associations which include: foreign keys, class names, and source. I didn't get a chance to read through and take notes, I was only able to skim the page, but this is what I based my model refactor off of.

{% embed url="https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/ruby-on-rails/lessons/active-record-associations\#basic-stuff" %}

## Planning Adjustments

After making copious notes regarding my models and associations in GitBook, I realized that I hadn't used one of it's features that drew me here in the first place: the ability to easily insert code blocks into your notes.

I removed the wordy bulleted lists of associations and instead created migration files for each model and separated them by tab inside a code block. Then, I eliminated my lists of associations broken down by model and created another code block, this time with individual tabs for model files.

It is worth noting that I added `references` to the migration files per the model associations. I also refactored the associations in my models to use foreign keys, class names, and sources as part of aliasing the models. I still want to do research on whether I will keep this as-is, but it looks pretty good right now at least!

